# Discord Bots at Scale
Discord bots within recent times have undergone a number of upheavals. With the introduction of slash commands, to the [discontinuation of discord.py](https://gist.github.com/Rapptz/4a2f62751b9600a31a0d3c78100287f1), so much has happened its hard to keep up to date with the latest information. This leads us into the purpose of this document, a well researched, semi-consistently updated, authoritative guide with more objective look into the ecosystem as a whole while also providing (necessary) commentary on the space from a humanistic perspective. Or in simpler terms, a living white paper on Discord bots.

## Part 1 - The Paper
### Who are you, and why should I listen?
Well, first off I'm [Husky](https://github.com/Huskydog9988), and I'm a guy who programs things. I've been writing discord bots since 2018 and have written a fair few over the years, some of which you can find on the [ShitCorp GitHub](https://github.com/shitcorp), while many of the rest are lost even to me now. Now, your probably thinking I must have some incredible claim to fame in the community to back any claims I might make in the course of this paper, and I'll answer with the following. While I have had success with my own bots, my greatest claim to fame is **contributing** to [Wikipedia Bot](https://github.com/wikipedia-bot/wikipedia-bot), and helping to do the [slash command rewrite](https://github.com/shitcorp/wikipedia-bot-canary) (multiple times) before it was scraped. So, in short, no, I don't really have a claim to fame, but what I do have is experience, and to me at least that's worth more than anything.

### Why was this written?
This guide was initially written out of sheer discontent with the community. While more beginner focused guides existed like [discord.js's guide](https://discordjs.guide/), it seemed that nobody had really taken the time cater reliable advise for the more technically adapt members of the community. Now, some of you may point out the existence [Wolke's Microservice Bots paper](https://gist.github.com/DasWolke/c9d7dfe6a78445011162a12abd32091d), and while I'll touch on it again later, I'll say now that it just simply advocates for using microservices, and nothing much more. To go back to my point about why I originally wrote this, I also felt that little was documented in the best practices for each library, or what (usually awesome) optimization where out there. 

### Previous Iterations
This paper has undergone a lot of revisions over a wide range of time, hence me calling it a living white paper. In recent times though, I've noticed a number of errors issues, and with the dissatisfaction of how many things where presented my desire to rewrite the paper grew. Similarly, with the many changes the community saw and how bots themselves fundamentally work, I felt a rewrite was inevitable. So here we are, the rewritten paper. There are a number of differences between the old version and this new one. First and foremost is the specific optimization advice. While this paper may feature such information, its not the intended focus, more broad reaching claims are. Additionally. this guide isn't meant to serve as a list of optimization libraries, I'll be sure to compile one somewhere, and link it, it just won't be this paper anymore.